---
slug: new-creative-commons-licenses
title: Gala's New Module Licensing Options
tags: [creative commons, licenses, open educational resources]
---

# Gala's new module licensing options

Authors publishing a module on Gala now have a choice between two Creative Commons licenses:

1. [Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/) (_CC BY-NC-SA 4.0_) – This license allows others to share and adapt your module for non-commercial purposes, as long as they credit you. Any adapted versions of the module must carry the same license.

2. [Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/) (_CC BY-NC-ND 4.0_) – This license is similar to the CC BY-NC-SA license but it does not permit others to adapt or repurpose your module.

Modules created before these licensing options were introduced will default to _All Rights Reserved_—meaning that the author retains all rights to their module but grants Gala a license to distribute it (make the module available on learngala.com). Authors of these modules may switch to an open license at any time.

Keep in mind that Creative Commons licenses "only restrict what a reuser may do under the license and not what the licensor (rights holder) can do" ([see this guide from Wikimedia Commons](https://wiki.creativecommons.org/wiki/NonCommercial_interpretation)) so, as a module author, you are still free to use your module commercially or license it seperately elsewhere.

We chose these licenses because we feel they balance the desire on the part of many module authors in our community to make their work freely available, while at the same time preventing commercial exploitation of their efforts without permission. While we encourage authors to make their modules available to the community for adaptation, we want to make sure that all module authors feel comfortable sharing their work on Gala.

This move also aligns Gala with the wider Open Educational Resources (OER) movement. We agree with the authors of the [Cape Town Declaration](https://www.capetowndeclaration.org/read/) (2007) that beyond being "just the right thing to do," open education represents "a wise investment in teaching and learning for the 21st century." We see this commitment to OER as essential for the kind of innovation around collaborative module development and exchange we seek to build across traditional boundaries of research, learning, and practice.

Please direct any questions or concerns to <a href="mailto:hello@learngala.com">hello@learngala.com</a>. Thank you for being a part of our community of innovators!
